Hey guys! John Thompson Spring Framework
guru here. So today we're going to take a
look at using the IntelliJ debugger and
this is an example that is working on
for my Spring Core course and showing
how to use Thymeleaf and some validation
technology of Thymeleaf and how it
works with the binding properties and in
Spring. So let me just step you through
in IntelliJ. What I was looking at and
toggle over here to IntelliJ now. Okay. So
for my course, I had a Customer domain
object. I've refactored that to use a
command object for CustomerForm. I've
put in a validation in here for not
empty end userName and in the Customer
Controller, down on line 56,
I've passed in the @Valid annotation for
CustomerForm and the BindingResult to
check to see if that that binding has
any errors. And if it has any errors, I
want to return back to the CustomerForm.
So let's take a look at the behavior of
what's going on right now. So I have the
web application up in Spring Boot
already. I'm going to go into a new Customer
and I'm going to hit submit, and my
expectation was to see an error
displayed on screen there, but I'm
getting this error message here, about
evaluating the Spring expression. So
let's take a look at the console on this.
Going to toggle back over to IntelliJ
and bring up the console here. I'm
getting an neither BindingResult nor
playing target object found for bean
named Customer. It's available as a
request type attribute. So now I'm
looking at my code here. I'm expecting to
go back to customerForm and bind an
empty value for customer to this.
And this isn't happening for some reason. So
I need to take a peek under the covers
and see what's going on and I can do
this through IntelliJ. What I've done
is I've put a breakpoint in the
Thymeleaf template engine. I got line 1060
here. I just have a debugging breakpoint.
So let's take a look see what's going on with that. And to do that, I need to
shut down Tomcat.
And I'm going to bring it back up. So if you
look in the top right of IntelliJ, I have
my normal run configuration. I have my
debug configuration. So I'm going to bring
it up in debug. You can see it's a little
bit slower to startup when we're running
a debug. There is additional
overhead there. So I'm going to go back over
to Chrome now. Let's go back to the
list and refresh that. That should
trigger the breakpoint. I'm just
going to go ahead and scroll by that new
Customer. That's also going to trigger the
breakpoint. We're going to go by that one.
Now let's do submit. This will also
trigger the breakpoint. But I want to see
what's going on in the context. So I'm
going to bring up bring this up and take a
closer look at it. And if I go to the
context, variables, you can see I have an
object here - WebVariablesMap. And I'm
going to scroll through here. The way
Spring binding, so we have a Spring
BindingResult customerForm. I'm
inspecting this object. I can see that it
does have the errors property of one. So
it's complaining about userName. May not
be empty. So let's take a closer look at
my application code. So the property
comes in is customerForm and it returns
back to the view. Let's take a look at
the Thymeleaf view. Now I could see where
my problem was. So i refactored from
customer to customerForm. Thymeleaf is
looking for customerForm as the object,
not customer. So it was looking for
customer versus customerForm. This is an
error that I introduced in the
refactoring of it. So let's go ahead and
run this again. I'm going to shut down
the debugger and bring it back up
normally.
Go back to the list. I'm up normally.
We're not in debugging anymore. I'm going to
go to new customer and I hit an error.
Let's take a closer look at the error.
Now we're getting customerForm
not found. Let's take a quick look at the
controller. And when I do the new, I also
need to set customerForm here, as well
as an attribute. So I'm binding an empty
customerForm object on the new. So let's
take a closer look at that. Actually
since I I should be able to
rebuild a project here, you see that
Spring Boot is restarting. I'm going to go
back to the list new customer. That's not
working. I'm going to bound Spring Boot
now. So I do have the Spring Boot
developer tools implemented. Sometimes
the restart doesn't work quite right. And
you actually do have to balance it. So
that's what I'm doing now. So we are back
up and running. Bounce over here. Back to
my list so I can display the list
normally. There's my customer submit.
There's my errors object. Okay, so this is
an example of using the IntelliJ
debugger to take a look to see what's
going on in the cover. So this error was
caused by me. I refactored some things I
went from customer to customerForm ,and
the way the whole binding error stuff
works is tie it off that bean name. So I
was getting couple values in there for
customer and customerForm. And because
the customerForm1 is the one that had
the binding errors on it, when Thymeleaf
was looking to display, the errors
information, it couldn't find it because
in the template, I was binding to
customer and customer was just a new
empty object without any errors. I didn't
see that error originally. I wasn't quite
sure but what was going on. But through
the use of the IntelliJ debugger, I say
well take a look see what was in the web
model all the properties and the
attributes in that web model. And do
figure out what was wrong with that.
So hopefully if you ever get in the
situation where you need to debug and
see what's going on
in the Spring model that's being
presented at a Thymeleaf view layer you
can use the IntelliJ debugger to bring
up a list of all the objects and go
through that and see what's really going
on and why Thymeleaf might not be happy
about something.